# Returning an Optional
-----------------------

## I. Creating an Optional
```java
10: public static Optional<Double> average(int... scores) {
11:     if(scores.length == 0) return Optional.empty();
12:     int sum = 0;
13:     for(int score: scores) sum += score;
14:     return Optional.of((double) sum / scores.length);
15: }
```
Table 10.1 summarizes most of the instance methods on Optional than you need to know for the exam. There are a few 
others that involve chaining. We cover those later in the chapter.
> __Table 10.1__ Common __Optional__ instance methods.
> | Method                   | When Optional is Empty                         | When Optional contains value |
> |:-------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------|
> | get()                    | Throws exception                               | Returns value                |
> | iPresent(Consumer c)     | Does nothing                                   | Calls Consumer with value    |
> | isPresent()              | Return false                                   | Returns true                 |
> | orElse(T other)          | Returns other parameter                        | Returns value                |
> | orElseGet(Supplier s)    | Returns result of calling Supplier             | Returns value                |
> | orElseThrow()            | Throws NoSuchElementException                  | Returns value                |
> | orElseThrow(Supplier s)  | Throws exception created by calling Supplier   | Returns value                |
>

&emsp;&emsp;
You have already seen get() and isPresent(). The other methods allow you to write code that uses an Optional in one 
line without having to use the ternary operator. This makes the code easier to read. Instead of using an if 
statement, which we used when checking the average earlier, we can specify a Consumer to be run when there is a 
value inside the Optional. When there isn't, the method simply skips running the Consumer.
```java
Optional<Double> opt = average(90, 100);
opt.ifPresent(System.out::println);
```
## II. Dealing with an Empty Optional
The remaining methods allow you to specify what to do if a value isn't present. There are a few choices. The first two 
allow you to specify a return either directly or using a Supplier.
```java
30: Optional<Double> opt = average();
31: System.out.println(opt.orElse(Double.Nan));
32: System.out.println(opt.orElseGet(() -> Math.random()));
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This prints something like the following:
```java
NaN
0.5396183290228018
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Alternative, we can have the code throw an exception if the Optional is empty.
```java
30: Optional<Double> opt = average();
31: System.out.println(opt.orElseThrow());
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This prints something like the following:
```java
Exception in thread "main" java.util.NoSuchElementException:
    No value present
    at java.base/java.util.Optional.orElseThrow(Optional.java:382)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Without specifying a Supplier for the exception, Java will throw a NoSuchElementException. Alternatively, we can have 
the code throw a custom exception if the Optional is empty. Remember that the stack trace looks weird because the 
lambdas are generated rather than named classes.
```java
30: Optional<Double> opt = average();
31: System.out.println(opt.orElseThrow(
32:    () -> new IllegalStateException()));
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This prints something like the following:
```java
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IllegalStateException
    at optionals.Methods.lambda$orElse$1(Methods.java:31)
    at java.base/java.util.Optional.orElseThrow(Optional.java:408)
```

&emsp;&emsp;
The two methods that take a Supplier have different names. Do you see why this code does not compile?
```java
System.out.println(opt.orElseGet(
    () -> new IllegalStateException()));    //DOES NOT COMPILE
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The opt variable is an Optional. This means the Supplier must return a Double. Since this Supplier returns an 
exception, the type does not match.
The las example with Optional is really easy. What do you think this does?
```java
Optional<Double> opt = average(90, 100);
System.out.println(opt.orElse(Double.NaN));
System.out.println(opt.orElseGet(()->Math.random()));
System.out.println(opt.orElseThrow());
```
&emsp;&emsp;
It prints out 95.0 three times. Since the value does exist, there is no need to use the "or else" logic.

> __Is Optional the Same as null?__
> An alternative to Optional is to return null. there are a few shortcomings with this approach. One is that there 
> isn't a clear way to express that null might be a special value. By contrast, returning an Optional is a clear in the 
> API that there might not be a value.
> 
> Another advantage of Optional is that you can use a functional programming style with ifPresent() and the other 
> methods rather than needing an if statement. Finally, you see toward the end of the chapter that you can chain 
> Optional calls.

## Questions
1. Fill in the blanks so that both methods produce the same output for all inputs.
```java
private static void longer(Optional<Boolean> opt) {
    if(opt._____________()) {
        System.out.println("run: " + opt.get());
    }    
}

private static void shorter(Optional<Boolean opt>) {
    opt.map(x -> "run: " + x)
    .____________(System.out::println);
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
`isPresent`, `ifPresent`
The method returns a boolean and is commonly used in _if_ statement. There is also an `ifPresent()` method that takes a 
`Consumer` parameter and runs it only if the `Optional` is nonempty.
2. wew
3. ew