# Using Streams
---------------
A Stream in Java is a sequence of data. A Stream pipeline consists of the operations that run on a stream to 
produce a result. First, we look at the flow of pipelines conceptually. After that, we get into the code.

## I. Understanding the Pipeline Flow
Think of a stream pipeline as an assembly line in a factory. Suppose that we are running an assembly line to make signs 
for the animal exhibits at the zoo. We have a number of jobs. It is one person’s job to take the signs out of a box. 
It is a second person’s job to paint the sign. It is a third person’s job to stencil the name of the animal on the 
sign. It’s the last person’s job to put the completed sign in a box to be carried to the proper exhibit.

&emsp;&emsp;
Notice that the second person can’t do anything until one sign has been taken out of the box by the first person. 
Similarly, the third person can’t do anything until one sign has been painted, and the last person can’t do anything 
until it is stenciled.

&emsp;&emsp;
The assembly line for making signs is finite. Once we process the contents of our box of signs, we are finished. Finite 
streams have a limit. Other assembly lines essentially run forever, like one for food production. Of course, they do 
stop at some point when the factory closes down, but pretend that doesn't happen. Or think of sunrise/sunset cycle as 
infinite, since it doesn't end for an inordinately large period of time.

&emsp;&emsp;
Another important feature of an assembly line is that each person touches each element to do their operation, and then 
that piece of data is gone. It doesn't come back. The next person deals with it at that point. This is different than 
the lists and queues that you saw in the previous chapter. With a list, you can access any element at any time. With a 
queue, you are limited in which elements you can access, but all of the elements are there. With streams, the data 
isn’t generated up front—it is created when needed. This is an example of lazy evaluation, which delays execution 
until necessary.

&emsp;&emsp;
Many things can happen in the assembly line stations along the way. In functional programming, these are called stream 
operations. Just like with the assembly line, operations occur in a pipeline. Someone has to start and end the work, 
and there can be any number of stations in between. After all, a job with one person isn’t an assembly line! 

There are three parts to a stream pipeline, as shown in Figure 10.2.
- __Source__: Where the stream comes from
- __Intermediate operations__: Transforms the stream into another one. There can be as few or as many intermediate
operations as you'd like. Since streams use lazy evaluation, the intermediate operations do not run until the 
terminal operation runs.
- __Terminal operation__: Produces a result. Since streams can be used only once, the stream is no longer valid after 
a terminal operation completes.

> __Figure 10.2__ Stream pipeline
> ```java
> Source -> Intermediate Operations -> Terminal Operation
>                1 -> 2 -> ... -> n
> ```

&emsp;&emsp;
Notice that the operations are unknown to us. When viewing the assembly line from the outside, you care only about 
what comes in and goes out. What happens in between is an implementation detail.

&emsp;&emsp;
You will need to know the differences between intermediate and terminal operations well. Make sure you can fill in
Table 10.2.
> __Table 10.2__ Intermediate vs. Terminal operations
>
| Scenario                              | Intermediate operation | Terminal Operation |
|:--------------------------------------|:-----------------------|:-------------------|
 | Required part of useful pipeline?     | No                     | Yes                |
| Can exist multiple times in pipeline? | Yes                    | No                 |
| Return type is stream type?           | Yes                    | No                 |
| Executed upon method call?            | No                     | Yes                |
| Stream valid after call?              | Yes                    | No                 |
>
>
&emsp;&emsp;
A factory typically has a foreperson(capataz) who oversees the work. Java serves as the foreperson when working with 
stream pipelines. This is a really important role, especially when dealing with lazy evaluation and infinite streams. 
Think of declaring the stream as giving instructions to the foreperson. As the foreperson finds out what needs to be 
done, they set up the stations and tell the workers what their duties will be. However, the workers do not start until 
the foreperson tells them to begin. The foreperson waits until they see the terminal operation to kick off the work. 
They also watch the work and stop the line as soon as work is complete.

&emsp;&emsp;
Let’s look at a few examples of this. We aren’t using code in these examples because it is really important to 
understand the stream pipeline concept before starting to write the code. Figure 10.3 shows a stream pipeline with 
one intermediate operation.
> __Figure 10.3__ Steps in running a stream pipeline
> ```java
> Take sign out of box        ->      Intermediate Operation      -> Put sign in pile
>                                        (paint sign)
>                                        1 -> 2 -> 3
>                                        4 -> 5 -> 6
> ```
>

&emsp;&emsp;
Let’s take a look at what happens from the point of view of the foreperson. First, they see that the source is taking 
signs out of the box. The foreperson sets up a worker at the table to unpack the box and says to await a signal to 
start. Then the foreperson sees the intermediate operation to paint the sign. They set up a worker with paint and say 
to await a signal to start. Finally, the foreperson sees the terminal operation to put the signs into a pile. They 
set up a worker to do this and yell that all three workers should start.

&emsp;&emsp;
Suppose that there are two signs in the box. Step 1 is the first worker taking one sign out of the box and handing it 
to the second worker. Step 2 is the second worker painting it and handing it to the third worker. Step 3 is the third 
worker putting it in the pile. Steps 4–6 are this same process for the other sign. Then the foreperson sees that there 
are no signs left and shuts down the entire enterprise.

&emsp;&emsp;
The foreperson is smart and can make decisions about how to best do the work based on what is needed. As an example, 
let’s explore the stream pipeline in Figure 10.4.
> __Figure 10.4__ A Stream pipeline with a limit
> ```java
> Take sign out of box        ->      Intermediate Operation      -> Put sign in pile
>                                           (paint sign)
>                                      Paint sign -> Only do 2 signs 
> ```
>

&emsp;&emsp;
The foreperson still sees a source of taking signs out of the box and assigns a worker to do that on command. They 
still see an intermediate operation to paint and set up another worker with instructions to wait and then paint. Then 
they see an intermediate step that we need only two signs. They set up a worker to count the signs that go by and notify 
the foreperson when the worker has seen two. Finally, they set up a worker for the terminal operation to put the signs 
in a pile.

&emsp;&emsp;
This time, suppose that there are 10 signs in the box. We start like last time. The first sign makes its way down the 
pipeline. The second sign also makes its way down the pipeline. When the worker in charge of counting sees the second 
sign, they tell the foreperson. The foreperson lets the terminal operation worker finish their task and then yells, 
“Stop the line.” It doesn’t matter that there are eight more signs in the box. We don’t need them, so it would be 
unnecessary work to paint them. And we all want to avoid unnecessary work!

&emsp;&emsp;
Similarly, the foreperson would have stopped the line after the first sign if the terminal operation was to find the 
first sign that gets created.

&emsp;&emsp;
In the following sections, we cover the three parts of the pipeline. We also discuss special types of streams for 
primitives and how to print a stream

## II. Creating Stream Sources
In Java, the streams we have been talking about are represented by the ` Stream<T> ` interface, defined in 
the ` java.util.stream ` package.
### 1. Creating Finite Streams
For simplicity, we start with finite streams. There are a few ways to create them.
```java
11: Stream<String> empty = Stream.empty();              // count = 0
12: Stream<Integer> singleElement = Stream.of(1);       // count = 1
13: Stream<Integer> fromArray = Stream.of(1, 2, 3);     // count = 3
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Java also provides a convenient way of converting a Collection to a stream.
```java
14: var list = List.of("a", "b", "c");
15: Stream<String> = fromList = list.stream();
```
> __Creating a Parallel Stream__
> It is just as easy to create a parallel stream from the list.
> ```java
> 24: var list = List.of("a", "b", "c");
> 25: Stream<String> fromListParallel = list.parallelStream();
> ```
> This is a great feature because you can write code that uses concurrency before even learning what a thread is. Using 
> parallel streams is like setting up multiple tables of workers who can do the same task. Painting would be a lot 
> faster if we could have five painters painting signs instead of just one. Just keep in mind some tasks cannot be done 
> in parallel, such as putting the signs away in the order that they were created in the stream. Also be aware that 
> there is a cost in coordinating the work, so for smaller streams, it might be faster to do it sequentially. You learn 
> much more about running tasks concurrently in Chapter 13, “Concurrency.”
> 

### 2. Creating Infinite Streams
So far, this isn't particularly impressive. We could do all this with lists. We can't create an infinite list, though, 
which makes streams more powerful.
```java
Stream<Double> randoms = Stream.generate(Math::random);
Stream<Integer> oddNumbers = Stream.iterate(1, n -> n + 2);
```

> __Printing a Stream Reference__
> If you try to call ` System.out.println(stream); `, you will get something like the following:
> ```java
> java.util.stream.ReferencePipeline$3@4517d9a3
> ```
> This is different from a Collection, where you see the contents. You don't need to know this for the exam. We mention 
> it so that you aren't caught by surprise when writing code for practice.

Another overloaded version of `iterate`:
```java
19: Stream<Integer> oddNumberUnder100 = Stream.iterate(
20: 1,                  //seed
21: n -> n < 100,       //Predicate to specify when done
22: n -> n + 2 );       // Unary Operator to get next value
```

### 3. Reviewing Stream Creation Methods
> **Table 10.3** Creating a source
>
> |Method|Finite or Infinite|Notes|
> |------|------------------|-----|
> |Stream.empty() |Finite |Creates Stream with zero elements.|
> |Stream.of(varargs) |Finite |Creates Stream with elements listed.|
> |coll.stream() |Finite |Creates Stream from Collection.|
> |coll.parallelStream() |Finite |Creates Stream from Collection where the stream can run in parallel.|
> |Stream.generate(supplier) |Infinite |Creates Stream by calling Supplier for each element upon request.|
> |Stream.iterate(seed, unaryOperator) |Infinite |Creates Stream by using seed for first element and then calling 
> UnaryOperator for each subsequent element upon request.|
> |Stream.iterate(seed, predicate, unaryOperator) |Finite or Infinite |Creates Stream by using seed for first element 
> and then calling UnaryOperator for each subsequent element upon request. Stops if Predicate returns false.|

## III. Common Stream Operations
You can perform a ___terminal operation without any intermediate operations___ but no the other way around. This is 
why we talk about terminal operations first. Reductions are a special type of terminal operation where all of the
contents of the stream are combined into a single primitive or Object. For example, you might have an int or 
a Collection.
> __Terminal Stream Operations

| Method                                        | What happens for infinite Streams | Return value | Reduction |
|:----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------|:-------------|:----------|
| count()                                       | Does not terminate                | long         | Yes       | 
| min() <br/> max()                             | Does not terminate                | Optional     | Yes       |
| findAny() <br/> findFirst()                   | Terminates                        | Optional     | No        |
| allMatch() <br/> anyMatch() <br/> noneMatch() | Sometimes terminates              | boolean      | No        |
| forEach()                                     | Does not terminate                | void         |  No       |
| reduce()                                      | Does not terminate                | Varies       | Yes       |
| collect()                                     | Does not terminate                | Varies       | Yes       |

&emsp;&emsp;
### 1. Counting
The `count()` method determines the number of elements in an infinite stream. For an infinite stream, it never 
terminates.The `count()` method is a reduction because it looks at each element in the stream and returns a single 
value. The method signature is as follows:
```java
public long count()
```
Example:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("lion", "cat", "monkey");
System.out.println(s.count());      // 3
```

> __NOTE: REduction__
> The word reduction is used with streams for a terminal operation. A reduction has to look at each element in the 
> stream to determine the result.

### 2. Finding the Minimum and Maximum
The `min()` and `max()` methods allow you to pass a custom comparator and find the smallest or largest value in a finite 
stream according to that sort order. Both methods are reductions because they return a single value after looking at 
the entire stream. The method signatures are as follows:
```java
public Optional<T> min(Comparator<? super T> comparator)
public Optional<T> max(Comparator<? super T> comparator)

```
&emsp;&emsp;
This example finds the animal with the fewest letters in its name:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("cat", "monkey", "bonobo");
Optional<String> min = s.min((s1, s2) -> s1.length() - s2.length());
min.ifPresent(System.out::println);         //cat
```

```java
Optional<?> minEmpty = Stream.empty().min((s1, s2) -> 0);
System.out.println(minEmpty.isPresent());               //false
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Since the stream is empty, the comparator is never called, and no value is present in the Optional.
> __Note:__
> What if you need both min() and max() values of the same Stream? For now, you can't have both, at least not using these
> methods. Remember, a stream can have only noe terminal operation. Once a terminal has been run, the stream cannot 
> be used again. As you see in this chapter, there are built-in summary methods for some numeric streams that will 
> calculate a set of values for you.

### 3. Finding a Value
The `findAny()` and `findFirst()` methods return an element of the stream unless the stream is empty. If the stream is
empty, they return an empty Optional.
&emsp;&emsp; as its name implies, the `findAny()` method can return any element of the stream. When we called on the 
streams you have seen up until now, it commonly returns the first element. although this behavior is not guarantee.

&emsp;&emsp;
These methods are terminal operations but not reductions. The reason is that they sometimes return without processing 
all of the elements. This means that they return a value based on the stream but do not reduce the entire stream into 
one value.
```java
public Optional<T> findAny();
public Optional<T> findFirst();
```
Example:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("monkey", "dog", "panda");
Stream<String> infinite = Stream.generate(() -> "chimp");

s.findAny().ifPresent(System.out::println);             // monkey (usually)
infinite.findAny().isPresent(System.out::println)       // monkey
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Finding anyone match is more useful than it sounds. Sometimes we just want to sample the results and get a 
representative element, but we don't need to waste the processing generating them all.

### 4. Matching

The `allMatch()`, `anyMatch()` and `noneMatch()` methods search a stream and return information about how the stream 
pertains(pertenece) to the predicate. These may or may not terminate for finite streams. It depends on the data. Like 
the find methods, they are not reductions because they do not necessarily look at all the elements.
&emsp;&emsp;
The method signatures are as follows:
```java
public boolean anyMatch(Predicate<? super T> predicate)
public boolean allMatch(Predicate<? super T> predicate)
public boolean noneMatch(Predicate<? super T> predicate)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This example checks whether animal names begin with letters:
```java
var list = List.of("monkey", "2", "chimp");
Stream<String> infinite = Stream.generate(() -> "chimp");
Predicate<String> pred = x -> Character.isLetter(x.chartAt(0));

System.out.println(list.stream().anyMatch(pred));       //true
System.out.println(list.stream().allMatch(pred));       //fasle
System.out.println(list.stream)().noneMatch(pred);      //false
System.out.println(infinite.anyMatch(pred));            //true
```
&emsp;&emsp;
On the infinite Stream, one match is found, so the call terminates. If we called `allMatch()`. It would run until we 
killed the program.
> __Tip__
> Remember that allMatch(), anyMatch() and noneMatch() return a boolean. By contrast, the find methods return an 
> Optional because they return an element of the stream.

### 5. Iterating
AS in the Java Collection Framework,it is common to iterate over the elements of a stream. As expected, calling 
`forEach()` on an infinite stream does not terminate. Since there is no return value, it is not a reduction.
&emsp;&emsp;
The method signature is as follows:
```java
public void forEach(Consumer<? super T> action)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Notice that this is the only terminal operation with a return type of void. If you want something to happen, you have to 
mak it happens in the Consumer. Here's one way to print elements in the Stream (there are other ways, which we cover 
later in the chapter).
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("Monkey", "Gorilla", "Bonobo");
s.forEach(System.out::print);           // MonkeyGorillaBonobo
```
Notice that can't use a traditional for loop on a Stream.
```java
Stream<Integer> s = Stream.of(1);
for (Integer i: s) {}       // DOES NOT COMPILE
```
&emsp;&emsp;
While `forEach()` sounds like a loop, it is really a terminal operator for streams. Streams cannot be used as the source 
in a for-each loop because they don't implement the iterable interface.

### 6. Reducing
The `reduce()` method combines a stream into a single object. It is a reduction, which means it processes all elements. 
The three method signatures are these:
```java
public T reduce(T identity, BinaryOperator<T> accumulator);
public Optional<T> reduce(BinaryOperator<T> accumulator);
public <U> U reduce(U identity, BiFunction<U, ? super T, U> accumulator, BinaryOperator<U> combiner)
```
Think about how you would concatenate an array of String objects into a single String without functional programming. It 
might look something like this:
```java
r array = new String[] { "w", "o", "l", "f" };
var result = "";
for (var s: array) result = result + s;
System.out.println(result);                 // wolf
```

&emsp;&emsp;
The *identity* is the initial value of the reduction, in this case an empty String. The *accumulator* combines the 
current result with the current value in the stream. With lambdas, we can do the same thing with a stream and reduction.
```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("a", "r", "i", "e", "l");
String word = stream.reduce("", String::concat);
System.out.println(word);                       //ariel
```

```java
Stream<Integer> stream = Stream.of(3, 5, 6);
System.out.println(stream.reduce(1, (a, b) -> a * b));
```
&emsp;&emsp;
We set in the _identity to 1 and the accumulator to multiplication. In many cases, the identity isn't necessary, so Java 
let us omit it. When you don't specify an identity, an Optional is returned because there might not be any data. There 
are three choices for what is in the Optional:
- if the stream is empty, an empty Optional is returned.
- If the stream has one element, it is returned.
- If the stream has multiple elements, the accumulator is applied to combine them.
```java
BinaryOperator<Integer> op = (a, b) -> a * b;
Stream<Integer> empty = Stream.empty();
Stream<Integer> oneElement = Stream.of(3);
Stream<Integer> threeElements = Stream.of(3, 5, 6);

empty.reduce(op).ifPresent(System.out::println);            //no output
oneElement.reduce(op).ifPresent(Systen.out::println);       //3
threeElements.reduce(op).ifPresent(Systen.out::println);    //90
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Why are there two similar methods? Why not just always require the identity? Java could have done that. However, 
sometimes it is nice to differentiate the case where the stream is empty rather than the case where there is a value 
that happens to match the identity being returned from the calculation. The signature returning an Optional lets us 
differentiate these cases. For example, we might return Optional.empty() when the stream is empty and Optional.of(3) 
when there is a value.

&emsp;&emsp;
The third method signature is used when we are dealing with different types. It allows Java to create intermediate 
reductions and then combine them at the end. Let's take a look at an example that counts the number of characters 
in each String.

```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("w", "o", "l", "f!");
int length = stream.reduce(0, (i, s) -> i + s.length(), (a, b) -> a + b);
System.out.println(length);         //5
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The first parameter (0) is the value for the initializer. If we had an empty stream, this would be the answer. The 
second parameter is the accumulator. Unlike the accumulators you saw previously, this one handles mixed data types. In 
this example, the first argument, i, is an Integer, while the second argument, s, is a String. It adds the length of 
the current String to our running total. The third parameter is called the combiner, which combines any intermediate 
totals. In this case, a and b are both Integer values.

&emsp;&emsp;
The three-argument `reduce()` operation is useful when working with parallel streams because it allows the stream to be 
decomposed and reassembled by separate threads. For example, if we needed to count the length of four 100-character 
strings, the first two values and the last two values could be computed independently. The intermediate 
result (200 + 200) would then be combined into the final value.

### 7. Collecting
The `collect()` method is a special type of reduction called a _mutable reduction_. It is more efficient than a regular 
reduction because we use the same mutable object while accumulating. Common mutable objects include StringBuilder and 
ArrayList. This is a really useful method, because it lets us get data out of streams and into another form. The 
signatures are as follows:
```java
public <R> R collect(Supplier<R> supplier, BiConsumer<R, ? super T> accumulator, BiConsumer<R, R> combiner)
public <R, A> R collect(Collector<? super T, A, R> collector)
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Let’s start with the first signature, which is used when we want to code specifically how collecting should work. Our 
wolf example from reduce can be converted to use collect():
```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("w", "o", "l", "f!");

StringBuilder word = stream.collect(
    StringBuilder::new,
    StringBuilder::append,
    StringBuilder::append);
System.out.println(word);           //wolf!
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The first parameter is the supplier, which creates the object that will store the results as we collect data. Remember 
that a Supplier doesn’t take any parameters and returns a value. In this case, it constructs a new StringBuilder.
&emsp;&emsp;
The second parameter is the accumulator, which is a BiConsumer that takes two parameters and doesn't return anything. It 
is responsible for adding one more element to the data collection. In this example, it appends the next String to the 
StringBuilder.

&emsp;&emsp;
The final parameter is the combiner, which is another BiConsumer. It is responsible for taking two data collections and 
merging them. This is useful when we are processing in parallel. Two smaller collections are formed and then merged 
into one. This would work with StringBuilder only if we didn’t care about the order of the letters. In this case, the 
accumulator and combiner have similar logic.

&emsp;&emsp;
now let's look at an example where the logic is different in the accumulator and combiner.
```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("w", "o", "l", "f");

TreeSet<String> set = stream.collect(
    TreeSet::new,
    TreeSet::add,
    TreeSet::addAll);

System.out.println(set); // [f, l, o, w]
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The collector has three parts as before. The supplier creates an empty TreeSet. The accumulator adds a single String 
from the Stream to the TreeSet. The combiner adds all of the elements of one TreeSet to another in case the operations 
were done in parallel and need to be merged.

&emsp;&emsp;
We started with the long signature because that’s how you implement your own collector. It is important to know how to 
do this for the exam and understand how collectors work. In practice, many common collectors come up over and over. 
Rather than making developers keep reimplementing the same ones, Java provides a class with common collectors cleverly 
named Collectors. This approach also makes the code easier to read because it is more expressive. For example, we could 
rewrite the previous example as follows:
```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("w", "o", "l", "f");
Set<String> set = stream.collect(Collectors.toCollection(Tree::new));
System.out.println(set);                    // [f, l, o, w]
```

&emsp;&emsp;
If we didn't need the set to be sorted, we could make the code even shorter:
```java
Stream<String> stream = Stream.of("w", "o", "l", "f");
Set<String> set = stream.collect(Collectors.toSet());
System.out.println(set);                    // [f, w, l, o]
```
&emsp;&emsp;
You might get different output for this last one since toSet() makes no guarantees as to which implementation of Set 
you’ll get. It is likely to be a HashSet, but you shouldn't expect or rely on that.
> __Note__
> The exam expects you to know about common predefined collectors in addition as to which implementation of Set you'll 
> get. It is likely to be a HashSet, but you shouldn't expect or rely on that.
> 

## IV. Using Common Intermediate Operations
Unlike a terminal operation, an intermediate operation produces a stream as its result. An intermediate operation can 
also deal with an infinite stream simply by returning another infinite stream. Since elements are produced only as 
needed, this works fine. The assembly line worker doesn't need to worry about how many more elements are coming through 
and instead can focus on the current element.
### 1. Filtering
The `filter()` method returns a Stream with elements that match a given expression. Here is the method signature:
```java
public Stream<T> filter(Predicate<? super T> predicate)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Example:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("monkey", "gorilla", "bonobo");
s.filter(x -> x.startsWith("m"))
    .forEach(System.out::println);          //monkey
```
### 2. Removing Duplicates
The `distinct()` method returns a stream with duplicate values removed. The duplicates do not need to be adjacent to be 
removed. As you might imagine, Java calls `equals()` to determine whether the objects are equivalent. The method 
signature is as follows:
```java
public Stream<T> distinct()
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Example:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("duck", "duck", "duck", "goose");
s.distinct().forEach(System.out::print);                // duckgoose
```
### 3. Restricting by Position
The `limit()` and `skip()` methods can make a Stream smaller, ot `limit()` could make  a finite stream out of an 
infinite stream. The method signatures are show here:
```java
public Stream<T> limit(long maxSize)
public Stream<T> skip(long n)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The following code creates an infinite stream of numbers counting from 1. The `skip()` operation returns an infinite 
stream starting with the numbers counting from 6, since it skips the first five elements. The `limit()` call takes the 
first two of those. Now we have a finite stream with two elements, which we can then print with the forEach() method:
```java
Stream<Integer> s = Stream.iterate(1, n -> n + 1);
s.skip(5)
    .limit(2)
    .forEach(System.out::print);                //67
```
### 4. Mapping
The `map()` method creates a one-to-one mapping from the elements in the stream to the elements of the next step in the 
stream. The method signature is as follows:
```java
public <R> Stream<R> map(Function<? super T, ? extends R> mapper)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This one looks more complicated than the others you have seen. It uses the lambda expression to figure out the type 
passed to that function and the one returned. The return type is the stream that is returned.
> __Note__
> The `map()` method on streams is for _transforming data_. Don't confuse it with the Map interface, which maps keys
> to value.

&emsp;&emsp;
Example:
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("monkey", "gorilla", "bonobo");
s.map(String::length)
    .forEach(System.out::print);                //676
```
### 5. Using flatMap
The `flatMap()` method takes each element in the stream and makes any element it contains top-level elements in a __single 
stream__. This is helpful when you want to remove empty elements from a stream or __combine__ a stream of lists. We are 
showing you the method signature for consistency with the other methods so you don't think we are hiding anything. You 
aren't expected to be able to read this.
```java
public <R> Stream<R> flatMap(Function<? super T, ? extends Stream<? extends R>> mapper)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Example:
```java
List<Stream> zero = List.of();
var one = List.of("Ariel");
var two = List.of("Alina Vargas", "Ximena Quiroz");
Stream<List<String>> names = Stream.of(zero, one, two);

names.flatMap(m -> m.stream()).forEach(System.out::println);
```
Output:
```java
Ariel
Alina Vargas
Ximena Quiroz
```

> __Concatenating Streams__
> While flatMap() is good for the general case, there is a more convenient way to concatenate two streams.
> ```java
> var one = Stream.of("Ariel);
> var two = Stream.of("Alina Vargas", "Ximena Quiroz");
> Stream.concat(one, two).forEach(System.out::println);
> ```
> This produces the same three lines as the previous example. The two streams are concatenated, and the terminal 
> operation, forEach(), is called.
>

### Questions
1. What does the following output?
```java
12: Set<String> set = new HashSet<>();
13: set.add("tire-");
14: List<String> list = new LinkedList<>();
15: Deque<String> queue = new ArrayDeuque<>();
16: queue.push("wheel-");
17: stream.of(set, list, queue)
18:       .flatMap(x -> x)          // THE CODE DOES NOT COMPILE
19:       .forEach(System.out::print);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The `flatMap()` method works with streams rather than collections. Line 18 is problematic because the return value is not
a stream. Since the code does not compile.

### 6. Sorting
The `sorted()` method returns a stream with the elements sorted. Just like sorting arrays, Java uses natural ordering 
unless we specify a comparator. The method signatures are these:
```java
public Stream<T> sorted()
public Stream<T> sorted(Comparator<? super T> comparator)
```

```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("brown", "bear-");
s.sorted().forEach(System.out::println);        //bear-brown
```

```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("brown bear", "grizzly");
s.sorted(Comparator.reverseOrder())
    .forEach(System.out::print); // grizzly-brown bear-
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Here we pass a Comparator to specify that we want to sort in the reverse of natural sort order. Ready for a tricky one? 
Do you see why this doesn't compile?
```java
Stream<String> s = Stream.of("brown bear-", "grizzly-");
s.sorted(Comparator::reverseOrder);                     // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Take a look at the second `sorted()` method signature again. It takes a Comparator, which is a functional interface that 
takes two parameters and returns an int. However, `Comparator::reverseOrder` doesn't do that. Because `reverseOrder()` 
takes no arguments and returns a value, the method reference is equivalent to `() -> Comparator.reverseOrder()`, which 
is really a Supplier<Comparator>. This is not compatible with sorted(). We bring this up to remind you that you really 
do need to know method references well.

### 7. Taking a Peek
The `peek()` method is our final intermediate operation. It is useful for __debugging__ because it allows us to perform 
a stream operation without changing the stream. The method signature is as follows:
```java
public Stream<T> peek(Consumer<? super T> action)
```

You might notice the intermediate `peek()` operation takes the same argument as the terminal forEach() operation. Think 
of `peek()` as an intermediate version of forEach() that returns the original stream to you.
&emsp;&emsp;
The most common use for `peek()` is to output the contents of the stream as it goes by. Suppose that we made a typo and 
counted bears beginning with the letter g instead of b. We are puzzled why the count is 1 instead of 2. We can add 
a `peek()` method to find out why.
```java
var stream = Stream.of("black bear", "brown bear", "grizzly");
long count = stream.filter(s -> s.startsWith("g"))
    .peek(System.out::println).count();         // grizzly
System.out.println(count);                      // 1
```
&emsp;&emsp;
In Chapter 9, you saw that `peek()` looks only at the first element when working with a Queue. In a stream, peek() looks 
at each element that goes through that part of the stream pipeline. It’s like having a worker take notes on how a 
particular step of the process is doing.
> __Danger: Changing State with peek()
> Remember that peek() is intended to perform an operation without changing the result. Here's a straightforward
> stream pipeline that doesn't use peek()
> ```java
> var numbers = new ArrayList<>();
> var letters = new ArrayList<>();
> numbers.add(1);
> letters.add('a');
> 
> Stream<List<?>> stream = Stream.of(numbers, letters);
> stream.map(List::size).forEach(System.out::print);        //11
> ```
> Now we add peek() call note that Java doesn't prevent us from writing bad peek code:
> ```java
> Stream<List<?>> bad = Stream.of(numbers, letters);
> bad.peek(x -> x.remove(0))
>    .map(List::size).forEach(System.out::print);           //00
> ```
> This example is bad because peek() is modifying the data structure that is used in the stream, which causes the result 
> of the stream pipeline to be different than if the peek wasn't present.
## V. Putting Together the Pipeline
```java
var list = List.of("Toby", "Anna", "Leroy", "Alex");
list.stream()
    .filter(n -> n.length() == 4)
    .sorted()
    .limit(2)
    .forEach(System.out::println);
```
Another example:
```java
Stream.generate(() -> "Elsa")
    .filter(n -> nlength() == 4)
    .sorted()
    .limit(2)
    .forEach(System.out::println);
```
The example hangs until you kill the program, or it throws an exception after running out of memory. The foreperson 
has instructed `sorted()` to wait until everything to sort is present. The never happens because there is an infinite 
stream. What about this example?
```java
Stream.generate(() -> "Else")
    .filter(n -> n.length() == 4)
    .limit(2)
    .sorted()
    .forEach(Systemm.out::println);
```
This one prints Elsa Twice. Finally, what do you think this about does?
```java
Stream.generate(() -> "Ximena")
    .filter(n -> n.lenghth() == 4)
    .limit(2)
    .sorted()
    .forEach(Systemm.out::println);
```
This one hangs as well until kill the program. The filter doesn't allow anything through, so `limit()` never see two 
elements. This means we have to keep waiting and hope that they show up.
> __Tip:__
> On the exam, you might see long or complex pipelines as answer choices. If this happens, focus on the differences 
> between the answers. Those will be your clues to the correct answer. This approach will also save you time by not 
> having to study th whole pipeline on each option.
>
&emsp;&emsp;
When you see chained pipelines, note where the source and terminal operations are. This will help you keep track (seguir 
la pista) of what is going on.

### Questions
1. What is the result of executing the following?
```java
var list = new LinkedList<>();
list.add("Archie");
list.add("X-men");
Stream s = list.stream();       // line w
s.forEach(System.out::println);
s.forEach(System.out::println);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
Java allows you to operate on a stream only once. The final lne of code throws an `IllegalStateException` because the 
stream has already been used up. <br/>
2. Which functional interface, when entered into the following blank, allows the class to compile?
```java
package groceries;
import java.util.*;
import java.util.function.*;

public class Market {
    private static void checkPrices(List<Double> prices, ______________ scanner) {
        prices.forEach(scanner);
    }
    
    public static void main(String[] right) {
        List<Double> prices = List.of(1.2, 6.5, 3.0);
        checkPrices(prices, 
                p -> {
                    String result = p<5 ? "Correct" : "Too high";
                    System.out.println(result);
                });
    }
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_*
A. `Consumer` <br/>
B. `Consumer<Integer>` <br/>
C. `DoubleConsumer` <br/>
D. `Supplier<Double>` <br/>
E. None of the above <br/>

E. First, the `forEach()` method requires a `Consumer` instance. Option D can be immediately discarded because 
`Supplier<Double>` does not inherit `Consumer`. For this same reason, option C is also incorrect. `DoubleConsumer` does 
not inherit from Consumer. In this manner, ___primitive functional interface cannot be used in the `forEach` method___. 
Option A seems correct, since forEach() does take a Consumer instance, but it missing a generic argument. <br/>
3. What does the following output?
```java
var chars = Stream.generate(() -> 'a');
chars.filter(c -> c < 'b')
        .sorted()
        .findFirst()
        .ifPresent(System.out::print);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
The does not compile. The source of this stream is infinite. Sorting something infinite never finishes, so the stream 
pipeline never completes. <br/>
4. Which of the following fill in the blank so that the code outputs `weasel` but uses a poor practice?
```java
import java.util.*;
public class Cheater {
    int count = 0;
    public void sneak(Collection<String> coll) {
        coll.stream().____________________;
    }
    public static void main(String... args) {
        var c = new Cheater();
        c.sneak(Arrays.asList("weasel"));
    }
}
```
A. `peek(System.out::println)`  // it is never executed  and printed because peek is an intermediate operation. <br/>
B. `peek(System.out::println).findFirst()` // compile but is good practice <br/>
C. `peek(r -> System.out.println(r).findFirst()` // compile but is good practice <br/>
D. `peek(r -> {count++; System.out.println(r); }).findFirst()` <br/>
E. None of the above <br/>
F. None of these are bad practice <br/>
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
D. Because it is bad practice to have a `peek()` method that has side effect like method modifying a variable. <br/>
5. Given
```java
public class Student {
    public static enum Grade {A, B, C, D, F};
    
    private String name;
    private Grade grade;
    public Student(String name, Grade grade) {
        this.name = name;
        this .grade = grade;
    }
    // getters and setters not shown
}
```
What can be inserted in the code below so that it will print: <br/>
{C=[S3], A=[S1, S2] }
```java
List<Student> ls = Arrays.asList(new Student("S1", Student.Grade.A), new Student("S2", Student.Grade.A), new Student("S3", Student.Grade.C));
// INSERT CODE HERE
System.out.println(grouping);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* 
```java
Map<Student.Grade, List<String>> grouping = ls.stream().collect(
    Collectors.groupingBy(Student::getGrade),
    Collectors.mapping(Student::getName, Collectors.toList())
);
```
This code illustrates how to cascade Collectors. <br/>
Here, you are first grouping the elements by Grade and then Collecting each element of a particular grade into a list 
after mapping it to a String. This will produce the required output. <br/>
6. Given
```java
public class Student {
    public static enum Grade {A, B, C, D, F};
    
    private String name;
    private Grade grade;
    public Student(String name, Grade grade) {
        this.name = name;
        this .grade = grade;
    }
    // getters and setters not shown
}
```
What can be inserted in the code below so that it will print: <br/>
{C=[S3:C], A=[S1:A, S2:A] }
```java
List<Student> ls = Arrays.asList(new Student("S1", Student.Grade.A), new Student("S2", Student.Grade.A), new Student("S3", Student.Grade.C));
// INSERT CODE HERE
System.out.println(grouping);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
 ```java
Map<Student.Grade, List<String>> grouping = ls.stream().collect(
    Collectors.groupingBy(s -> s.getGrade()));
```
7. Given
```java
List<String> letters = Arrays.asList("j", "a", "v", "a");
String workd = INSERT CODE
System.out.println(word);
```
Which of the following code fragments when inserted in the above code independent of ech other will cause it to print java?
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
```java
letters.stream().collect(Collectors.joining())
```
8. What will the following code print when compiled and run?
```java
List<String> values = Arrays.asList("Java EE", "C#", "Python");
boolean flag = values,stream().allMatch(str -> {
    System.out.println("Testing: " + str);
    return str.equals("Java");
        });
System.out.println(flag);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
*_Answer_* <br/>
Testing: Java EE <br/>
false <br/>

This question is based on the fact the `allMatch`, `noneMatch`, `anyMatch`, `findFirt`, and `findAny` are short-circuiting
terminal operations. This means, the given predicate will not be executed for each element of the stream if the result 
can be determined by testing an element in the beginning itself. For example, if you invoke predicate on the given stream, 
the predicate will return false for the first element. If any one element in the list does not satisfy the predicate, the 
result of the call to allMatch will certainly be false even if you test all other elements irrespective of whether other 
tests returns true or false. Therefore, it is clear that there ir no need for testing other elements.
9. 