# Parallel Stream
For example is we have a stream = Stream.of(1, 2, 3, 4) and we want to apply a reduction operation as sum(+), it will 
run with parallel stream 
CPU1 = 1 + 2 = 3
                   Then ==> 3 + 7 = 10
CPU2 = 3 + 4 = 7

To run in parallel mode, there are two main APIs:
`Collection.parallelStream()`
`BaseStream.parallel()`

&emsp;&emsp;
We can also ask if a stream is configured so it will run in parallel
`BaseStream.isParallel()`
but this method is unreliable if the stream is running or has finished.

## Constraints for Parallel Streams
To run safely in parallel
- ensure all operations are pure functions
- or (very carefully) control the thread-safety of all data sharing operations
  - notice that the collect operation ensures that "result" objects are not shared--each thread will have exclusive 
  - ownership of an object of its own.
### Quick Question
_1._
```java
long [] counter = {0};
LongStream.range(0, 10_000_000_000L)
    .parallel()
    .peek(x -> counter[0]++)
    .allMatch(x -> x >=0);
System.out.println(counter[0]);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The updated to counter[0] are uncontrolled and not thread-safe. It is because when the counter is going to run in 
parallel it will run simoustanly for different threads and that would be very dangerous

_2._ Given a `Stream<T>`, which method would you use to obtain an equivalent parallel `Stream<T>`
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The correct method to obtain an equivalent parallel stream of an existing stream is `parallel()`, which is inherited 
by any class that implements `BaseStream<T>`.

_3._ Five of the following six methods always produce the same result whether they are executed on an ordered serial or 
parallel stream. Which one does not?
- `findAny()`
- `findFirst()`
- `limit()`
- `skip()`
- `anyMatch()`
- `count()`
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The `findAny()` method can return first, last or any element of the stream, regardless of whether the stream is serial 
or parallel. While on serial streams this is likely to be the first element in the stream, on parallel stream the
result is less certain. For this reason, the option `A` is the correct.
_4._ Given an `IntStream`, which method would you use to obtain an equivalent parallel `Stream<T>`?
- `parallel()`
- `parallelStream()`
- `parallels()`
- `getParallel()`
- `getParallelStream()`
- None of the above
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
None of the above. Trick question! The correct method to obtain an equivalent parallel stream of an existing `IntStream` 
is `parallel()`, but for IntStream this return another IntStream, not aa generic Stream<T>. The correct solution would
be to call `boxed().parallel()` , but since this is not available, option 'None of the above' is correct.
_5._ Given a `LinkedList<E>`, which method would you call to obtain a parallel stream that uses it as a data source?
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The correct method to obtain a parallel stream from a `Collection<E>` is `parallelStream()`
_5._ What is the output of the following program?
```java
var p = List.of(new StringBuilder("hello"), 
    new StringBuilder("goodbye"));
var q = p.parallelStream().reduce(0,
    (w, x) -> w.length() + x.length(),
    (y, z) -> y.length() + z.length());
System.out.print(q);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
Two lines do not compile. 
Based on the reduction operation, the data types of w, y, and z are Integer, while the data 
type of x is StringBuilder. Since Integer does not define a length() method, both the accumulator and combiner lambda 
expressions are invalid.
_6._ Which statements about applying _forEachOrdered()_ to parallel ordered stream instead of using _forEach_ are
correct?
&emsp;&emsp;
_Answer_
The operation will likely be slower.
It forces some stream operation in the pipeline to be performed in a serial manner.

