## Working with Variables in Lambdas
------------------------------------

They can appear in three places with respect to lambdas:
- the parameters list
- local variables declared inside the lambda body
- variables referenced from the lambda body

## I. Listing Parameters
Earlier in this chapter, you learned that specifying the type of parameters is optional. Additionally, var can be used 
in place of the specific type. That means that all three of these statements are interchangeable.
```java
Predicate<String> p = x -> true;
Predicate<String> p = (var x) -> true;
Predicate<String> p = (String x) -> true;
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The exam might ask you to identify the type of the lambda parameter. In our example, the answer is String. How did we 
figure that out? A lambda infers the types from the surrounding context. That means you get to do the same.
In this case, the lambda is being assigned to a Predicate that takes a String. another place to look for the type is 
in a method signature. 
Can you figure out the type of x?
```java
public void whatAmI() {
    consume((var x) -> System.out.println(x), 123);
}

public void consume(Consumer<Integer> c, int num) {
    c.accpet(num);
}
```
The inferred type is an Integer

&emsp;&emsp;
Next, what do you think the type of x is here?
```java
public void counts(List<Integer> list) {
    list.sort((var x var y) -> x.compareTo(y));
}
```
The answer is again Integer. Since we are sorting a list, we can use the type of the list to determine the type of the 
lambda parameter.

&emsp;&emsp;
Since lambda parameters are just like method parameters, you can add modifiers to them. Specially, you can add the final 
modifier or an annotation, as shown in this example:
```java
public void counts(List<Integer> list) {
    list.sort((final var x, @Deprecated var y) -> x.compareTo(y));    
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
While this tends to be uncommon in real life, modifiers such as these have been known to appear in passing on the exam.

> __Parameter List Formats
> You have three formats for specifying parameter types within a lambda: ___without types, with types and with var___. 
> The compiler requires all parameters in the lambda to use the same format. can you see why the following are not
> valid?
> ```java
> 5: (var x, y) -> "Hello"                      // DOES NOT COMPILE
> 6: (var x, Integer y) -> true                 // DOES NOT COMPILE
> 7: (String x, var y, Integer z) -> true       // DOES NOT COMPILE
> 8: (Integer x, y) -> "goodby"                 // DOES NOT COMPILE
>```
> Line 5 remove var from x or add it to y.
> Lines 6 and 7 need to use the type or var consistently.
> Line 8 needs to remove Integer from x or add a type to y.

## II. Using Local Variables Inside a Lambda Body
```java
(a, b) -> { int c = 0; return 5;}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Do you see the error here?
```java
(a, b) -> { int a = 0; return 0;} // DOES NOT COMPILE because it tried to redeclare a
```


```java
11: public void variables(int a) {
12:     int b = 1;
13:     Predicate<Integer> p1 = a -> {
14:             int b = 0;
15:             int c = 0;
16:             return b == c; }
17: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
There are three syntax errors. 
Line 13, the variable 'a' was already used in this scope as a method parameter, so it cannot be reused.
Line 14, the code attempts to redeclare local variable 'b'.
Line 16, the variable p1 is missing a semicolon at the end.

> __Keep Your Lambdas Short__
> Having a lambda with multiple lines and a return statement is often a clue that you should refactor and put that 
> code in a method. For example, previous example could be rewritten as:
> ```java
> Predicate<Integer> p1 = a -> returnSame(a);
> ``` 
> This simpler form can be further refactored to use a method reference:
> ```java
> Predicate<Integer> p1 = this::returnSame;
> ```
> You might be wondering why this is so important. In Chapter 10, lambdas and method references are used in chained 
> method calls. The shorter tha lambda, the easier it is to read the code.

## III. Referencing Variables from the Lambda Body
Lambda bodies are allowed to reference ome variables from the surrounding code. The following code is legal.
```java
public class Crow {
    private String color;
    public void caw(String name) {
        String volume = "loudly";
        Consumer<String> consumer = s -> 
            System.out.println(name + " says "
                    + volume + " that she is " = color);
    }
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This shows that a lambda can access an instance variable, method parameter, or local variable under certain conditions. 
Instance variables (and class variables) are always allowed.
&emsp;&emsp;
The only thing lambdas cannot access are variables that are not final or effectively final. If you need a refresher 
on effectively final, see Chapter 5. "Methods".

```java
2:  public class Crow {
3:      private String color;
4:      public void caw(String name) {
5:          String volume = "loudly";
6:          name = "Caty";
7:          color = "black";
8:
9:          Consumer<String> consumer = s ->
10:             System.out.println(name + " says "              // DOES NOT COMPILE
11:                 + volume + " that she is " + color);        // DOES NOT COMPILE
12:         volume = "softly";
13:     }
14: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
In this example, the method parameter name is not effectively final because it is set on line 6. However, the compiler 
error occurs on line 10. It’s not a problem to assign a value to a non-final variable. However, once the lambda tries 
to use it, we do have a problem. The variable is no longer effectively final, so the lambda is not allowed to use the 
variable.
&emsp;&emsp;
The variable volume is not effectively final either since it is updated on line 12. In this case, the compiler error is 
on line 11. That’s before the reassignment! Again, the act of assigning a value is only a problem from the point of 
view of the lambda. Therefore, the lambda has to be the one to generate the compiler error.

&emsp;&emsp;
To review, make sure you’ve memorized Table 8.8.
> __Table 8.8__ Rules for accessing a variable from a lambda body inside a method.

|   Variable type   |                 Rule                  |
|:-----------------:|:-------------------------------------:|
| Instance variable |                Allowed                |
|  Static variable  |                Allowed                |
|  Local variable   | Allowed if final or effectively final |
| Method parameter  | Allowed if final or effectively final |
| Lambda parameter  |                Allowed                |