# Handling Exceptions

## III. Applying a Multi-catch Block
Often, we want the result of an exception that is thrown to be the same, regardless of which particular exception is 
thrown. For example, take a look at this method:
```java
public static void main(String args[]) {
    try {
        System.out.println(Integer.parseInt(args[1]));
    } catch (ArrayIndexOutOfException e) {
        System.out.println("MIssing or invalid input");
    } catch (NumberFormatException) {
        System.out.println("MIssing or invalid input");
    }
    
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Notice that we have the same `println()`  tatement for two different catch blocks. We can handle this more gracefully 
using a ___multi-catch block___.
```java
public static void main(String args[]) {
    try {
        System.out.println(Integer.parseInt(args[1]));
    } catch (ArrayIndexOutOfException | NumberFormatException e) {
        System.out.println("MIssing or invalid input");
    }
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
This is much better. There's no duplicate code, the common logic is all one place, and the logic is exactly where you 
would expect to find it. if you wanted, you could sill have a second catch block for Exception in case you want to 
handle other types of exceptions differently.

## IV. Adding a ___finally___ Block
The exm will try to trick you with missing clauses or clauses in the wrong order. Do you see why the following do or 
not compile?
```java
25: try { // DOES NOT COMPILE
26:     fall();
27: } finally {
28:     System.out.println("all better");
29: } catch (Exception e) {
30:     System.out.println("get up");
31: }
32:
33: try { // DOES NOT COMPILE
34:     fall();
35: }
36:
37: try {
38:     fall();
39: } finally {
40:     System.out.println("all better");
41: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The first example (line 25-31) does not compile because the `catch` and `finally` blocks are in the wrong order. The 
second example (lines 33-35) does not compile because there must be a `catch` or `finally` block. The third example
(lines 37-41) is just fine. The `catch` block is not required if `finally` is present.

&emsp;&emsp;
There is one additional rule you should know for `finally` blocks. If a `try` statement with a `finally` block is 
entered, then the `finally` block will always be executed, regardless of whether the code completes successfully. Take 
a look at the following `getHome()` method. Assuming an exception may or may not be thrown on line 14, what are the 
possible values that is method could print? Also, what would the return value be in each case?
```java
12: int goHome() {
13:     try {
14:         // Optionally throw an exception here
15:         System.out.print("1");
16:         return -1;
17:     } catch (Exception e) {
18:         System.out.print("2");
19:         return -2;
20:     } finally {
21:         System.out.print("3");
22:         return -3;
23:     }
24: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
If an exception is not thrown on line 14, then line 15 will be executed, printing 1. Before the method returns, though, 
the `finally` block is executed, printing 3. If an exception is thrown, then lines 15 and 16 will be skipped and lines 
17-19 will be executed, printing 2, followed by 3 from the `finally` block. While the first value printed mat differ, 
the method always prints 3 last since it's in the `finally` block.
&emsp;&emsp;
What is the return value of the `goHome()` method? In this case, it's always -3. Because the finally block is executed 
shortly before the method completes, it interrupts the return statement from inside both the try and catch blocks.
&emsp;&emsp;
For the exam, you need to remember that a finally block will always be executed. That said, it may not complete 
successfully. Take a look at the following code snippet. What would happen if info was null on line 32?
```java
31: } finally {
32:     info.printDetails();
33:     System.out.print("Exiting");
34:     return "zoo";
35: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
If info was null, then the finally block would be executed, but it would stop on line 32 and throw a 
NullPointerException. Lines 33 and 34 would not be executed. In this example, you see that while a finally block will 
always be executed, it may not finish.

> ### System.exit()
> There is one exception to "the finally block will always be executed" rule: Java defines a method that you can as 
> `System.exit()`. It takes an integer parameter that represent the status code that is returned.
> ```java
> try {
>   System.exit(0);
> } finally {
>   System.out.print("Never going to get here"); // Not printed
> }
> ```
> `System.exit()` tell Java, "Stop. End the program right now. Do not pass Go. Do no collect $200." When `System.exit()` 
> is called in the `try` or `catch` block, the `finally` block does not return.
