# Loading Properties with Resource Bundles
In the next sections, we create a resource bundle using properties files. It is conceptually similar to a **Map<String, String>**, 
with each line representing a different key/value. The key and value are separated by an equal sign(=) or colon(:). To 
keep things simple, we use an equal sign throughout this chapter. we also look at how Java determines which resource 
bundle to use.<br/>

## I. Creating a Resource Bundle
We need English and French properties files for our Zoo resource bundle. First, create two properties files.
```java
Zoo_en.properties
hello=Hello
open=The zoo is open

Zoo_fr.properties
hello=Bonjour
open=Le zoo est ouvert
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The filenames match the name of our resource bundle, Zoo. They are then followed by an underscore(_), target locale, and 
.properties file extension. we can write our very first program that uses a resource bundle to print this information.
```java
10: public static void printWelcomeMessage(Locale locale) {
11:     var rb = RosourceBundle.getBundle("Zoo", locale);
12:     System.out.println(rb.getString("hello") + ", " + rb.getString("open"));
13:
14: }
15: public static void main(String... args) {
16:     var us = new Locale("en", "US");
17:     var france = new Locale("fr", "FR");
18:     printWelcomeMessage(us);                // Hello, Thee zoo is open
19:     printWelcomeMessage(france);            // bonjour, Le oo est ouvert
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Since a resource bundle contains key/value pairs, you can even loop through them to list all of the pairs. The 
**ResourceBundle** class provides a `keySet()` method to get a set of all keys.
```java
var us = new Locale("en", "US");
ResourceBundle rb = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Zoo", us);
rb.keySet().stream()
    .map(k -> k + ": " + rb.getString(k))
    .forEach(System.out::println); // hello: Hello      open: The zoo is open
```

> **Real World Scenario**
> For the exam, you don't need to know where the property files for the resource bundles are stored. If the exam provides 
> a properties file, it is safe to assume that it exists and is loaded at runtime.
> 
> In your own applications, though, the resource bundles can be stored in a variety of places. While they can be stored 
> inside the JAR that uses them, doing so is not recommended. This approach forces you to rebuild the application JAR 
> any time some text changes. On of the benefits of using resource bundles is to decouple the application code from the 
> locale-specific text data.
> 
> Another approach is to have all of the properties files in a separate properties JAR or folder and load in the classpath 
> at runtime. In this manner, a new language can be added without changing the application JAR.
> 

## II. Picking a Resource Bundle
There are two methods for obtaining a resource bundle that you should be familiar with for the exam.
```java
ResourceBundle.getBundle("name");
ResourceBundle.getBundle("name", locale);
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Java handles the logic of picking the best available resource bundle for a give key. It tries to find the most specific 
value. Table 11.11 shown what Java goes through when asked for resource bundle **Zoo** with locale `new Locale("fr), "FR""` 
when the default locale is U.S. English.

> **Table 11.11** Picking a resource bundle for French/France with default English/US
> 
> | Step | Looks for file                                       | Reason                                    |
> |:-----|:-----------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
> | 1    | Zoo.fr_FR.properties                                 | Requested locale                          |
> | 2    | Zoo.fr.properties                                    | Language we requested with no ountry      |
> | 3    | Zoo_en_US.properties                                 | Default locale                            |
> | 4    | Zoo_en.properties                                    | Default locale's language with no country |
> | 5    | Zoo.properties                                       | No locale at all--default bundle          |
> | 6    | If still not found, throw MissingResourceException   | No Locale or default bundle available     |
> 
&emsp;&emsp;
As another way of remembering the order of Table 11.11, learn these steps:
1. Look for the resource bundle for the requested locale.
2. For each locale, check the language/country, followed by just the language.
3. Use the default resource bundle if no matching locale can be found.

What is the maximum number of files that Java would need to consider in order to find the appropriate resource bundle 
with the following code?
```java
Locale.setDefault(new Locale("hi"));
ResoruceBundle rb = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Zoo", new Locale("en"));
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The answer is three. They are listed here:
1. Zoo_en.properties
2. Zoo_hi.properties
3. Zoo.properties

## III. Selecting Resource Bundle
Example. We have a number of properties files this time.
```java
Zoo.properties
name=Vancouver Zoo

Zoo_en.properties
hello=Hello
open=is open

Zoo_en_US.properties
name=The Zoo

Zoo_en_CA.properties
visitors=Canada visitors
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Suppose that we have a visitor from Quebec (which has a default locale of French Canada) who has asked the program to 
provide information in English. What do you think this outputs?
```java
11: Locale.setDefault(new Locale("en", "US"));
12: Locale locale = new Locale("en", "CA");
13: ResourceBundle rb = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Zoo", locale);
14: System.out.print(rb.getString("hello"));
15: System.out.print(". ");
16: System.out.print(rb.getString("name"));
17: System.out.print(" ");
18: System.out.print(rb.getString("open"));
19: System.out.print(" ");
20: System.out.print(rb.getString("visitors"));
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The program prints the following
```java
Hello. Vancouver Zoo is open Canada visitors
```
&emsp;&emsp;
In this example, only three properties files were used: **Zoo_en_CA.properties**, **Zoo_en.properties**, and 
**Zoo.properties**. Even when the property wasn't found in **en_CA** or en resource bundles, the program preferred using 
**Zoo.properties** (the default resource bundle) rather than **Zoo_en_US.properties (the default locale). <br/>
&emsp;&emsp;
What if a property is not found in any resource bundle? Then an exception is thrown. For example, attempting to call 
`rb.getString("clos")` in the previous program results in a **MissingResourceException**. <br/>

## IV. Formatting Messages
For example, suppose that we had this property defined:
```java
hellyByName=Heelo, {0} and {1}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
In Java, we can read in the value normally. After that, we can run it through the **MessageFormat** class to substitute 
the parameters. The second parameter to `format()` is a vararg, allowing you to specify ay number of input values.
```java
String format = rb.getString("hellyByName");
System.out.prinltn()MessageFormat.format(format, "Ariel", "Alina");
```
&emsp;&emsp; 
This will print the following:
```java
Hello, Ariel and Alina
```
The **Properties** class function like the **HashMap** class. It uses *8String values for the keys and values. Example:
```java
Import java.util.Properties;
public class ZooOptions {
    public static void main(String... args) {
        var props = new Properties();
        props.setProperty("name","Our zoo");
        props.setProperty("open", "10am");
    }
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The **Properties** clas is commonly used in handling values that may not exist.
```java
System.out.println(props.getProperty("camel"));             // null
System.out.println(props.getProperty("camel", "Bob"));      // Bob (default value)
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The **Properties** class also includes a `get()` method, but only `getProperty()` allows for a default value. For example, 
the following call is invalid since `get()` takes only a single parameter.
```java
props.get("open");                                  // 10am

props.get("open", "The zoo will be open soon");     // DOES NOT COMPILE
```



















