# Using the Set Interface
The main thing that all Set implementations have in common is that they do ___not allow duplicates___.

### HASHSET
A HashSet stores its elements in a hash table, which means the keys are a hash and the values are an Object. This means 
that it uses the hashCode() method of objects to retrieve them more efficiently.
&emsp;&emsp;
The main benefit is that ___adding elements and checking___ whether an element is in the set both have ___constant time___.
<br/>
### TREESET
A TreeSet stores its elements in a ___sorted___ tree structure. The main benefit is that the set is always in sorted order. 
The trade-off is that adding and checking whether an element exists takes longer than with a HashSet, specially as 
the tree grows larger.

> **FIGURE 9.4** Examples of a HashSet and TreeSet
>
> ##### HashSet
> |hashCode() value|Data|
> |---------------|----|
> |−995544615|pandas|
> |...|...|
> |−761039044|zebras|
> |...|...|
> |102978519|bears|
>
> #### TreeSet
> &emsp;&emsp;&ensp;(pandas) <br />
> &emsp;&emsp;&ensp;/&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&ensp;\ <br />
> &emsp;(lions)&emsp;(zebras)

## Working with Set Methods
Like a List, you can create an immnutable Set in one line or make copy of an existing one.

```java
Set<Character> letters = Set.of('a', 'd', 'z');
Set<Character> copy = Set.copyOf(letters);
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Differences between HashSet and TreeSet.

```java
3: Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>();
4: boolean b1 = set.add(12); //true
5: boolean b2 = set.add(10); //true
6: boolean b3 = set.add(9); //true
7: boolean b4 = set.add(12); //false
```

&emsp;&emsp;
This code prints three lines:

```java
12
10
9
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Now let’s look at the same example with TreeSet:

```java
3: Set<Integer> set = new TreeSet<>();
4: boolean b1 = set.add(66); // true
5: boolean b2 = set.add(10); // true
6: boolean b3 = set.add(66); // false
7: boolean b4 = set.add(8);  // true
8: set.forEach(System.out::println);
```

&emsp;&emsp;
This time, the code prints the following:

```java
8
10
66
```

&emsp;&emsp;
The elements are printed out in their natural order. Numbers implement the __Comparable interface__ in Java, which 
is used for sorting.