# Using the Map Interface
You use a Map when you want to identify value by a key. The main thing that all Map classes have in 
common is that they have keys and values.

> ### **Map.of() and Map.copyOf()**
> Just like Lit and Set, there is a factory method to create a Map. You pass any number of
pairs of keys and values.
>  ```java
> Map.of("key1", "value1", "key2", "value2");
> ```
> Unlike List and Set, this is less than ideal. Passing keys and values is harder to read 
because you have to keep track of which parameter is which. Luckily, there is a better way.
Map also provides a method that lets you supply key/value pairs.
> ```java
> Map.ofEntries(
>       Map.entry("key1", "value1")
>       Map.entry("key2", "value2")
> );
> ```
> Now we can't forget to pass a value. If we leave out a parameter, the entry() method won't compile. 
Conveniently, Map.ofCopy(map) works just like the List and Set interface copyOf() method.

## HashMap
Stores the keys in a hash table. This means that uses the hashCode() method of the keys to retrieve their 
values more efficiently.

&emsp;&emsp;
The main benefit is that adding elements and retrieving the element by key both have constant time. The trade-off 
is that you lose the order in which you inserted the elements. However if the __order__ is important you can use a 
__LinkedHashMap__.

## TreeMap
A TreeMap stores the keys in a sorted tree structure. The main benefit is that the keys are always in sorted order. Like a 
TreeSet, the trade-off is that adding and checking whether a key is present takes longer as the tree grows larger.

## Working with *Map* methods
Given that Map doesn't extend Collection, more methods are specified on the Map interface. Since there are both key 
and values, we need generic type parameters for both. The class uses K for key and V for value.

> **Table 9.6**: Map Methods
>
> | Method                                                  |Description|
> |---------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
> | `public void clear()`                                   |Removes all keys and values from map.|
> | `public boolean containsKey(Object key)`                |Returns whether key is in the map.|
> | `public boolean containsValue(Object value)`            |Returns whether value is in the map.|
> | `public Set<Map.Entry<K, V>> entrySet()`                |Returns a Set of all key/value pairs.|
> | `public void forEach(BiConsumer<K key, V value>)`       |Loops through each key/value pair.|
> | `public V get(Object key)`                              |Returns value mapped by key or null if none is maped.|
> | `public V getOrDefault(Object key, V defaultValue)`     |Returns value mapped by key or defaultValue if none is mapped.|
> | `public boolean isEmpty()`                              |Returns whether the map is empty.|
> | `public Set<K> keySet()`                                |Returns a Set of all keys.|
> | `public V merge(K key, V value, Function(<V, V, V> func))` |Sets value if key not set. Runs function if key is set, to determine new value. Removes if value is null.|
> | `public V put(K key, V value)`                          |Adds or replaces key/value pair. Returns previous value or null if none.|
> |`public void putIfAbsent(K key, V value)`                |Adds value if key not present and returns null. Otherwise, returns existing value.|
> |`public V remove(Object key)`                            |Removes and returns value mapped to key. Returns null if none.|
> |`public V replace (K key, V value)`                      |Replaces value for given key if key is set. Returns original value or null if none.|
> |`public void replaceAll(BiFunction<K, V, V> func)`       |Replaces each value with results of function.|
> |`public int size()`                                      |Returns number of entries (key/value pairs) in map.|
> |`public Collection<V> values()`                          |Returns a Collection of all values.|

## Calling Basic Methods

```java
Map<String, String> map = new HashMap<>();
map.put("koala", "bamboo");
map.put("lion", "meat");
map.put("giraffe", "leaf");
String food = map.get("koala"); // bamboo
for (String key: map.keySet())
    System.out.print(key + ","); // koala,giraffe,lion,
```
KeySet() method to get all the keys. <br />

&emsp;&emsp;
Java uses the hashCode() of the key to determine the order. The order here happens not to be sorted 
order or the order in which we typed the values. Now let's look at TreeMap:

```java
Map<String, String> map = new TreeMap<>();
map.put("koala", "bamboo");
map.put("giraffe", "leaf");
map.put("lion", "meat");
String food = map.get("lion"); //meat
for (String key: map.keySet()) {
    System.out.println(key + ","); //giraffe, koala, lion
    }
```

## Putting if Absent
The putIfAbsent() method sets a value in the map but skips it if the value is already set to non-null value.

```java
Map<String, String> favorites = new HashMap<>();
favorites.put("Jenny", "Bus Tour");
favorites.put("Tom", null);
favorites.put("Jenny Tram", "");
favorites.put("Sam", "Tram");
favorites.put("Tom", "Tram");
System.out.println(favorites); // {Tom=Tran, Jenny=bus Tour, Sam=Tram}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
As you ca see, Jenny's value is not updated because ne ws already present. Sam wasn't there at all, so he was added. Tom 
as present as a key but had a null value. Therefore, he was added as well.

## Merging Data
The merge() method adds logic of what to choose. Suppose we want to choose the ride wth the longest name. We can write 
code to express this by passing a mapping function to the merge() method.

```java
BiFunction<String, String, String> mapper = (v1, v2) -> v1.length() > v2.lenght() ? v1 : v2;

Map<String, favorites> favorites = new HahMap<>();
favorites.put("Jenny", "Bus Tour");
favorites.put("Tom", "Tram");

String jenny = favorites.merge("Jenny", "Skyride", mapper); 
String tom = favorites.merge("Tom", "Skyride", mapper);

System.out.println(favorites);      // {Tom=Skyride, Jenny=Bus Tour}
System.out.println(jenny);          // Bus Tour
System.out.println(tom);            // Skyride

```

&emsp;&emsp;
The merge() method also has logic for what happens if null values or missing keys are involved. In this case, it 
doesn't call the BiFunction at all, and it simply uses the new value.

```java
BiFunction<String, String, String> mapper = (v1, v2) -> v1.length() > v2.length() ?v1 : v2;
Map<String, String> favorites = new HashMap<>();
favorites.put("Sam", null);
favorites.merge("Tom", "Skyride", mapper);
favorites.merge("Sam", "Skyride", mapper);
System.out.println(favorites);      // {Tom=Skyride, Sam=Skyride}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
The final thing to know about merge() is what happens when the mapping function is called and return null. The 
key is removed from the map when it happens.

```java
BiFunction<String, String, String> mapper = (v1, v2) -> v1.length() > null;
Map<String, String> favorites = new HashMap<>();
favorites.put("Jenny", "Bus Tour");
favorites.put("Tom", "Bus Tour");

favorites,merge("Jenny", "Skyride", mapper);
favorites.merge("Sam", "Skyride", mapper);
System.out.println(favorites);              // {Tom=Bus Tour, Sam=Skyride}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
Tom was left alone since there was no merge() call for that key. Sam was added dince that key was not in the 
original list. Jenny was removed because the mapping function returned null.


