# Working with Generics
-----------------------

Java is a statically typed language, which means you must first declare a variable and its type before using it.
For instance:
```java
    int myInteger = 42;
```
&emsp;&emsp;
> __Why can't we use primitive types with generics?__
> Because generics are compile-time feature. It means when compiling the generic
> parameter T will be __erased__ (T will be replaced by the "Object" class).

## Generic Types
A generic type is a generic class or interface that is parameterized over types.
Essentially, generic types allow you write a general, generic class (or method) that works with different types, 
allowing for code re-use.
The Lis class is a perfect example of java generics.

```java
import java.util.List;

class Sorting<T> {
    
    public List<T> sortingGeneric(List<T> list) {
        // TODO
        return null;
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String... args) {
        Sorting<String> obj = new Sorting<>();
        obj.sortingGeneric(List.of("A", "D", "B"));
    }
}
```

## Generic Classes
The syntax for introducing a generic is to declare a ___formal type parameter___ in angle brackets.
```java
public class Crate<T> {
    private T contents;
    
    private T emptyCrate() {
        return contents;
    }
    
    private void packCrate(T contents) {
        this.contents = contents;
    }
}
```

```java
public class SizeLimitedCrate<T, U> {
    private T contents;
    private U sizeLimited;
    
    pulic SizeLimitedCrate(T contents, U sizeLimited) {
        this.contents = contents;
        this.sizeLimited = sizeLimited;
    }
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
When declaring a class that uses generics, you must specify a name for a format type parameter. Java uses the 
standard rules for naming a variable or class. While it is common practice to use a single uppercase letter 
for he type parameter, this is not required. It certainly is not a good idea to use existing class names like 
Object class build into Java. However both are allowed.

## Generic Interfaces
Just like a class, an interface can declare a formal type parameter.
```java
public interface Shippable<T> {
    void ship(T t);
}
```

## Generic Methods
This is often useful for __static__ methods since they aren't part of an instance that can declare the type. However, 
it is also allowed on __non-static methods__.

```java
public class Handler {
    public static <T> void prepare(T t) {
        System.out.println("Preparing: " + t);
    }
    
    public static <T> Crate<T> ship(T t) {
        System.out.println("Shipping: " + t);
        return new crate<T>();
    }
}
```

```java
public class More {
    public static <T> void sink(T t) {
        
    }
    
    public static <T> T identity(T t) {
        return t;
    }
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
When you have a method declare a generic parameter type, it is independent of the class generics. Take a look at this 
that declares a generic T at both levels:
```java
public class Crate<T> {
    public <T> T tricky(T t) {
        return t;
    }
}
```

## Type Erasure (Backward compatibility - Object)
Specifying a generic type allows the compiler to enforce proper use of the generic type. For example, specifying the 
generic type of Crate as Robot is like replacing the T in the Crate class with Robot.
However, this is just for compiler time.
Behind the scenes, the compiler replaces all references to T in Crate with Object. In other words, after the code 
compiles, your generics are actually just __Object types__.
The Crate class looks like the following at runtime:

```java
public class Crate {
    private object contents;
    
    private Object emptyCrate() {
        return contents;
    }
    
    private void packCrate(Object contents) {
        this.contents = contents;
    }
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
This means there is only one class file. There are not differents copies for different parameterized types (Some other 
languages work that way). 

&emsp;&emsp;
___This process of removing the geeric syntax from your code is referred to as type erasure___. Type erasure allows
your code to be compatible with older versions of Java that do not contain generics.
The compiler adds the relevant casts for your code to work with this type of erased class. For example, you 
type the following:

> ```java
> 10: Robot  r = crate.emptyCrate();
> ```
> The compiler turns it into the following:
> ```java 
> 10: Robot r = (Robot)crate.emptyCrate();
> ```
>

## WILDCARD (?)
Ahora puede que  te preguntes, pero no hay alguna manera de hacer que solo el metodo sea generico sin tocar toda 
la clase? La respuesta es SI, y para esto existe los Wildcards.

```java
public class SortingClass {
    
    public List<?> sort(Lis<?> unsortedList) {
        // return sorted list
    }
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
The question mark (?) is know as the wildcard in generic programming. It represents an unknown type. The wildcard 
can be used in a variety of situations such as the __type of parameter, field, or local variable; sometimes as a 
return type__. Unlike arrays, different instantiations of a generic type are not compatible with each other, 
not even explicitly.
This incompatibility may be softened by the wildcard if ? is used as an actual type parameter.

```java
class SortingClass {
    public List<?> sort(List<?> unsortedList) {
        return null;
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SortingClass sortingClass = new SortingClass();
        sortingClass.sort(List.of("S", "D", "A", "I"));
        sortingClass.sort(List.of(13, 3, 5, 2, 7));
        sortingClass.sort(List.of(1, "A", false, 2.9)); // THere is No Compilation error
    }
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
So, to fix the above issue we can do two things:
- First solution
  > List<String> unsortedList = List.of("S", "D", "A", "I");
  > List<Integer> unsortedListInteger = List.of(13, 3, 5, 2, 7);  
- Second solution (___Bounded wildcards___)
  > public List<? extends Number> sort(List<? extends Number> unsortedList) {
  >    return null;
  > }

### Types of Wildcards in Java
## 1. __Upper(extends) Bounded Wildcards - read elements - Producer__
List<? extends A> means a List of objects that are instances of a class A, or subclasses of A (e.g. B and C). Here
and example:
```java
public void processElements(List<? extends A> elements) {
    for(A a: elements) {
        System.out.println(a.getValue());
    }
}
```
You can now call the processElements() method with either a List<A>, List<B> or List<C>. Hence, all of these examples 
are valid:
```java
List<A> listA = new ArrayList<>();
processElements(listA);

List<B> listB = new ArrayList<>();
processEleents(listB);

List<C> listC = new ArrayList<>();
processEleents(listC);
```

## 2. __Lower(super) Bounded Wildcards - adding elements - Consumer__
It specifies the lower class in the hierarchy that can be used as a generic type.

&emsp;&emsp;
Suppose we want to write a generic method that adds numbers to a List. Say don't want to support numbers but only 
integers. To maximize flexibility, we want to allow users to call our method using the list of Integer end all of 
its supertypes (Number  or Object), In other words, anything that can hold Integer values, we should use lower-bounded 
wildcard.
```java
10: public static addNumber(List<? super Integer> list, Integer number) {
11:     list.add(number);
12: }
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Here, any subtype can be inserted into a collection defined with a supertype. __If we are nsure we should use the upper 
or lower bound, we can think about PECS(Produces extends, Consumer Super)__.
&emsp;&emsp;
Whenever out method consumes a collection, for example adding elements, we should use a lower bound. On the other hand, 
if our method only reads elements, we should use the upper bound. Additionally, if our method does both, i.e. it 
produces and consumes a collection, we cannot apply PECS rule and should use unbounded types instead.

&emsp;&emsp;
> When you have subclasses and superclasses, lower bounds can get tricky.
```java
List<? super IOException> exceptions = new ArrayList<Exception>();

exceptions.add(new Exception());                // DOES NOT COMPILE
exceptions.add(new IOException());              // COMPILE
exceptions.add(new FileNotFoundException());    // COMPILE
```

```java
Class A {}
Class B extends A {}
Class C extends B {}

List<? extends B> list1 = new ArrayList<A>();       // DOES NOT COMPILE
List<? super B> list2 = new ArrayList<A>();         // COMPILE
List<?> list3 = new ArrayList<? extends A>();       // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

## 3. __Unbounded(unknown)__ Wildcard
Sometimes, we'd like to create a generic method that modifies the collection. We already mentioned we should consider 
using wildcards instead of type parameters to increase flexibility. However, using wildcards for a method that supports 
collection modification can be tricky.
&emsp;&emsp;
Let's consider the implementation of teh swap() method mentioned earlier. The straightforward implementation of the 
swap() method does not compile:
```java
public static void swap(List<?> list, int srcIndex, int destIndex) {
    list.set(srcIndex, , list.set(destIndex, list.get(srcIndex)));    
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The code won’t compile because we declared the list to be any type, so Java wants to save us from ourselves by 
forbidding any modification of a list that can contain any element. When the set() method is called, the compiler 
isn’t able to determine the type of object being inserted into the list. Therefore it produces an error. This way, java
enforces type at compile time.
Additionally, we cannot use bounds since our method produces (reads) and consumes (updates) the list. In other words, 
the PECS rule cannot be applied here and we should use an unbounded type.
We could solve the problem by writing a generic helper method to capture the wildcard type: 
```java
private static <E> void swapHelper(Lit<E> list, int src, int dest) {
    list.set(src, src.set(dest, list.get(src)));
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
The swapHelper() method knows that list is a List<E>. Therefore, it knows ay value it gets out of this list is the 
type E and it’s safe to put any value of type E back into the list.

### Covariance (extends - subtypes) - Producer extends
Arrays are said to be covariant which basically means that, given the subtyping rules of Java, an array of type T[] 
may contain elements of the type T or subtype of T. For instance:
```java
Number[] numbers = new Number[3];
number[0] = new Integer(10);
number[1] = new Double(3,14);
number[2] = new Byte(0);
```

```java
Integer[]  myInts = {1, 2, 3};
Number[] myNumbers = myInts;
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Because according to the subtyping rules in Java, an array Integer[] is subtype of an array Number[] because Integer 
is a subtype of Number.

> we can have __multiple bounds__ for the same generic parameter.
```java
public class SortingClass<T extends Number & Comparable<T>> {
    public List<T> sort(List<T> unsortedList) {
        // return sortedList
    }
}
```

__Example 2__
```java
10: List<Integer> numbers = List.of(1, 2, 3, 4);
11: double sum = sum(numbers);
12:
13:
14: public static double sum(Collection<? extends Number> numbers) {
15:    return numbers.stream().mapToDouble(Number::doubleValue).sum();
16: }
17:
18:
19: public static void main(String[] args) { 
20:     numbers.add(10);        // NO COMPILE 
21:     numbers.add(null);      // PASSES
22: }
23:
```
In the example 2, notice that is not allowed to add a value in the list but yes is allowed a null value.
> When can we use <? extends T> ?
> used when we need to retrieve the elements of a collection and not when we need to alter the extended 
> collection (elements are added to it)
> Use extends when you want to get values out of a structure.

### Contravariance (super) - Consumer Super
```java
public static void main(String... args) {
    List<Number> numbers = new ArrayList<>();
    append(numbers);
    numbers.add(3.14);
}
```
__ Case1:__ Original method
```java
public static void append(Collection<Integer> integers) {
    IntStream.rangeClosed(1, 5).forEach(Integer::add);
}
```
It is compilation error because Collection<Integer> does not supports Number (invariance).

__ Case2:__ Fix it trying extended
```java
public static void append(Collection<? extends Integer> integers) {
    IntStream.rangeClosed(1, 5).forEach(Integer::add);
}
```
Also, compilation error because Number is not a subtype of Integer.

__ Case3:__ Solution
```java
public static void append(Collection<? super Integer> integers) {
    IntStream.rangeClosed(1, 5).forEach(Integer::add);
}
```
It is the solution because Number is a type(father) of Integer.
> When can we use <? super T> ?
> Used when we need to alter the collection and not when need to retrieve elements of the collection.
> use super when you only put values into a structure.

### Invariance
For example the class Collection is invariance, it means that only allowed classes of the type T. Example:
```java
public static void main(String... args) {
    List<Integer> numbers = List.of(1, 2, 3, 4);
    double sum = sum(numbers);      // NO COMPILE
}

public static double sum(Collection<Number> numbers) {
    return nmbers.stream().mapToDouble(Number::doubleValue).sum();
}
```
> Don't use wildcard when you want get and put values in a structure.

__ GENERICS IN JAVA __ 
- makes use of generics without overengineering the provided solution and keep generics within certain boundaries 
to mitigate all exceptions to compile-time.