# Applying Switch Statement

## 1. The *switch* Statement
A switch statement, is a complex decision-making structure in which a single value is evaluated and flow is redirect to the 
first matching branch, know as a case statement. If no such case statement is found that matches the value, an optional default 
statement will be called. If no such default option is available, the entire switch statement will be skipped. Case values 
can be combined into a single case statement using commas.
> **Combining case Values** Starting with Java 14, case values can not be combined
> ```java
> switch(animal) {
>   case 1, 2: System.our.print("Lion");
>   case 3: System.our.print("Tiger");
> }
> ```
> 
```java
public void printDayOfWeek(int day) {
    switch(day) {
        case 0:
            System.out.print("Sunday");
            break;
        case 1:
            System.out.print("Monday");
            break;
        case 3:
            System.out.print("Monday");
            break;
        ...
        defautl:
            System.out.print("Invalid value");
            break;
    }    
}
```

<br/>

## 2. Existing with *break* Statement
```java
public void printSeason(int month) {
    switch(month) {
        case 1, 2, 3: System.out.print("Winter");
        case 4, 5, 6: System.out.print("Spring");
        default: System.out.print("Unknown");
        case 7, 8, 9: System.out.print("Summer");
        case 10, 11, 12: System.out.print("Fall");
    }
    
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;

It prints everything!
WinterSpringUnknownSummerFall

&emsp;&emsp;
It matches the first case statement and executes all of the branches in the order they are found, including the default 
statement. It is common, although certainly not required, to use a break statement after every case statement.
<br/>

## 3. Selecting *switch* Data Types
- int and Integer
- byte and Byte
- short and Short
- char and Char
- String
- enuma values
- var (if the type resolves to one of the preceding types)

> **Note** Notice that boolean, long, float and double are excluded from switch statements, as are their associated 
> Boolean, Long, Float, and Double classes. The reasons are varied, such as boolean having too small a range of values 
> and floating-point numbers having quite a wide range of values. For the exam, you just need to know that they are not 
> permitted in switch statements.

## 4. Determining Acceptable Case Values
```java
final int getCookies() { return 4; }
void feedAnimals() {
    final int bananas = 1;
    int apples = 2;
    int numberOfAnimals = 3;
    final int cookies = getCookies();
    switch(numberOfAnimals) {
        case bananas:
        case apples:        // DOES NOT COMPILE
        case getCookies():  // DOES NOT COMPILE
        case cookies:       // DOES NOT COMPILE
        case 3 * 5:
    }
}
```
- The bananas variable is marked final, and its value is known at compile-time, so it is valid.
- The apples variable is not marked final, even though its value is known, so it is not permitted.
- The next two case statements, with values getCookies() and cookies, do not compile because methods are not evaluated until
runtime, so they cannot be used as the value of a case statement, even if one of the values is stored in a final variable.
- The last case statement, wit 3 * 5, does compile, as expressions are allowed as case values, provided the value can be resolved 
at compile-time.

They also must be able to fit in the switch data type without an explicit cast. We go into that in more detail shortly.
&emsp;&emsp;
Next, the data type for case statements must match the data type of the switch variable. For example, you can't have a case 
statement of type `String` if the switch statement variable is of type `int`, since the types are incomparable.
<br/>

## 5. The *switch* Expression
A witch expression is a much more compact form of a switch statement, capable of returning a value.
```java
int result = swicth(variableToTest) {
    case constantExpression1 -> 5;
    case constantExpression2, constantExpression3 -> {
        yield 10;
    }
    ...
    default -> 0;
};
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Unlike a traditional switch statement, though, switch expressions have special rules around when the **default branch is required.**
> **Note:** "Operators", that -> is the arrow operator. While the arrow is commonly used in lambda expressions, when it
> is used in a switch expression, the case branches are ot lambdas.

```java
public void printSeason(int month) {
    switch(month) {
        case 1, 2, 3 -> System.out.println("Winter");
        case 4, 5, 6 -> System.out.println("Spring");
        case 7, 8, 9 -> System.out.println("Summer");
        case 10, 11, 12 -> System.out.println("Fall");
    }    
}
```
&emsp;&emsp;
Calling `printSeason(2)` prints the single value Winter. This time we don't have to worry about break statements, since
only one branch is executed.
> **Note** Most of the time, a switch expression returns a value, although printSession() demonstrates one in which the 
> return type is void. Since the type is void, it can;t be assigned to a variable. On the exam, you are more likely to 
> see a switch expression that returns a value, but you should be aware that it is possible.

&emsp;&emsp;
Rules:
1. All of the branches of a switch expression tat do not throw an exception must return a consistent data type (if the expression 
returns a value).
2. If the switch expression returns a value, then every branch that is not an expression must yield a value.
3. A default branch is required unless all cases are covered or no value is returned.

<br/>

## 6. Returning Consistent Data Types
```java
int measurement = 10;
int size = switch(measurement) {
    case 5 -> 1;
    case 10 -> (short) 2;
    default -> 5;
    case 20 -> "3";         // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 40 -> 4L;          // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 50 -> null;        // DOES NOT COMPILE
};
```
<br/>

## 7. Applying a case Block
```java
int fish = 5;
int length = 12;
var name = switch(fish) {
    case 1 -> "Goldfish";
    case 2 -> { yield "trout"; }
    case 3 -> {
        if(length > 10) yield "Blobfish";
        esle yield "Green";
    }
    defautl -> "Swordfish";
}
```
<br/>

## 8. Covering All Possible Values
```java
String type = switch(canis) {       // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 1 -> "dog";
    case 2 -> "wolf";
    case 3 -> "coyote";
}
```

&emsp;&emsp;
There is no a case branch to cover 5 (or 5, -1, 0, etc.), so should the switch expression return null, the empty String, 
undefined, or some other value? When adding switch expressions to the Java language, the authors decided this behavior 
would be unsupported. Every switch expression must handle all possible values of the switch variable. As a developer, there 
are two ways to address this:
- Add a default branch
- If the switch expression takes an enum value, add a case branch for every possible enum value.

```java
enum Season { WINTER, SPRING, SUMMER, FALL}

String getWeather (Season value) {
    return switch(value) {
        case WINTER -> "Cold";
        case SPRING -> "Rainy";
        case SUMMER -> "Hot";
        case FALL -> "Warm";
    };
}
```

> **Tips**
> What happens if you use an enum with three values and later someone adds a fourth value? Any switch expression that use 
> the enum without a default branch will suddenly fail to compile. If this was done frequently, you might have a lot of 
> code to fix! For this reason, consider including a default branch in every switch expression, even those that involve 
> enum values.