# Identifying Threading Problems

## Race Conditions

The term Race condition describes two threads accessing the same data item.
- at least one writing and the other reading
- there is inadequate timing control of the operations

In this situation, two related problems might arise(presentar)
1. a read occurs before the intended data has been written
   1. perhaps resulting in data being used twice
2. data is overwritten before it has been used
   1. resulting in data being unused/lost

In either case, the effect essentially depends, on which thread gets there first. It is literally a race. 

## Understanding Deadlock
Most threading systems provide a means to stop executing a particular thread until some conditions arise, this is a powerful way 
to avoid wasting CPU power on the code equivalent of repeatedly asking "are we there yet" (ya llegamos).

Deadlock occurs when two or more threads are blocked forever, each waiting on the other. We can illustrate this principle with the 
following example. Imagine, that our zoo has two foxes: Foxy and Tails. Foxy likes to eat and then drink water, while Tails likes 
to drink water first and then eat. Furthermore, neither animal like to share, and they will finish their meal only if they exclusive 
access to both food and water.

Deadlock describes a situation where two or more threads are blocked forever, waiting for each other. For example, two threads T1 and T2 need a File 
and a Printer. T1 acquires the lock for the file and is about to acquire the lock for the Printer but before it could acquire the lock, 
T2 acquires the lock for the Printer and tries to acquire the lock for the file(which is already held by T1). So now, both the threads keep waiting 
for ever for each other to release their locks and neither will be able to proceed.

## Understanding Starvation
Occur when one thread cannot access the CPU because one or more other threads are monopolizing the CPU. Thread starvation may be 
caused because of  different thread priorities. A lower-priority thread ca be starved by higher-priority threads if the higher-priority 
threads do not yield control of the CPU from time to time.

## Understanding Livelock
A livelock happens when multiple threads keep trying to acquire a lock but none of the treads are able to get the lock and none of the threads 
end up in the blocked state.

